GitHub Receiver Documentation (#1358)
SigNoz/signoz.io: data/docs/cicd/github/github-actions-traces.mdx

---
date: 2025-04-10
id: github-actions-traces
title: GitHub Actions Traces
description: Integrate the GitHub Receiver to forward the traces data to SigNoz
hide_table_of_contents: true
---

> This document contains instructions on how to get the traces of GitHub Actions using [GitHub Receiver](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/blob/main/receiver/githubreceiver/README.md).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This document contains instructions on how to get the traces of your GitHub Actions pipeline in SigNoz.
```
Please confirm if GitHub Actions pipeline makes sense @KarthikP1306

## Prerequisites

> - Create [Webhook](https://docs.github.com/en/webhooks/using-webhooks/creating-webhooks#creating-a-repository-webhook) in the repo by selecting `workflow_run` and `workflow_job` events.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Ensure a [Webhook](https://docs.github.com/en/webhooks/using-webhooks/creating-webhooks#creating-a-repository-webhook) is created in the repository with `workflow_run` and `workflow_job` events enabled.
```

> - Have the GitHub Actions workflow for your repo, for the first time users refer this [link](https://docs.github.com/en/actions/writing-workflows/quickstart#creating-your-first-workflow).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Have a [GitHub Actions workflow](https://docs.github.com/en/actions/writing-workflows/quickstart#creating-your-first-workflow) for your repo
```

> ### Setup the SigNoz to fetch the traces

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Setup
```

<Tabs entityName="plans">
<TabItem value="signoz-cloud" label="SigNoz Cloud" default>

<Tabs>
<TabItem value="vm" label="VM" default>

> ### Step 1. Download OTel Contrib Collector

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Step 1. Setup OTel Collector
```

> Download OTel Contrib Collector tar.gz for your [architecture](https://signoz.io/docs/tutorial/opentelemetry-binary-usage-in-virtual-machine/#setup-otel-collector-as-agent).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The OpenTelemetry (OTel) Collector helps collect telemetry data such as logs, traces and metrics from your application.

Please follow the documentation [here](https://signoz.io/docs/tutorial/opentelemetry-binary-usage-in-virtual-machine/) to setup the OpenTelmetry Collector in your VM.

```

 
    ```bash
    wget https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-releases/releases/download/v0.125.0/otelcol-contrib_0.125.0_darwin_arm64.tar.gz
    ```

### Step 2. Extract OTel Contrib Collector
Extract OTel Collector tar.gz to the `otelcol-contrib` folder

    ```bash
    mkdir otelcol-contrib && tar xvzf otelcol-contrib_0.125.0_darwin_arm64.tar.gz -C otelcol-contrib

>     ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
We will redirect to the OTel collector binary doc so we can remove this step.

> ### Step 3. Set Up OTel Contrib Collector Configuration File

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Step 3. Setup GitHub Receiver
```

> Create `config.yaml` in `otelcol-contrib` folder with the below content in it. Replace `SIGNOZ_INGESTION_KEY` with your key.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Update the `config.yaml` file that you created in `otelcol-contrib` folder while setting up OTel Collector to include the `github` receiver under the `receivers` section.
```

At the end of this code block, just give a brief explanation about what is he code block doing.
Also, explain `<GITHUB_WEBHOOK_SECRET>` variable and `<service-name>` variable.

    ```yaml:/otelcol-contrib/config.yaml
    ...
    receivers:
      github:
        webhook:
          endpoint: 0.0.0.0:19418
          path: /events
          health_path: /health
          secret: <GITHUB_WEBHOOK_SECRET>

>           service_name: <Service Name> #optional

Reviewer: ```suggestion
          service_name: <service-name> #optional
```

        scrapers:
          scraper:

    exporters:
      otlp/signozcloud:
        endpoint: ingest.<region>.signoz.cloud:443
        headers:
          signoz-ingestion-key: <SIGNOZ_INGESTION_KEY>
        tls:
          insecure: false
      debug:
        verbosity: detailed 

    service:
      pipelines:
        traces:
          receivers: [github]
          processors: []

>           exporters: [otlp/signozcloud,debug]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Just show the GitHub receiver being added to the receivers section of the config file in this step.

    ...
    ```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Step 4: Add GitHub Receiver to pipelines

In the `config.yaml` file, under the `service` section, locate the `pipelines` block. Within the `traces` pipeline, add `github` to the list of receivers.

```yaml: :/otelcol-contrib/config.yaml
    ...
    service:
      pipelines:
        traces:
          receivers: [github]
          processors: []
          exporters: [otlp, debug]
          ...
```

> ### Step 4. Run the OTel Contrib Collector

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Step 5. Run the OTel Collector
```

Inside `otelcol-contrib` folder, run the command.

    ```bash
    ./otelcol-contrib --config ./config.yaml
    ```

> <Figure src="/img/docs/cicd/github/VMForSigNozCloudTraces.webp" alt="GitHub Receiver Traces" caption="GitHub Receiver Startup Message" />

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

We can remove this image as it's not visible clearly and isn't adding any value.

> ## Validate GitHub Actions Traces in SigNoz

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Validate Traces in SigNoz
```

- Traces can be viewed under the `Traces` tab in the SigNoz UI.

> <Figure src="/img/docs/cicd/github/VMForSigNozCloudTracesListView.webp" alt="GitHub Receiver Traces Console" caption="Traces List View" />

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<Figure src="/img/docs/cicd/github/VMForSigNozCloudTracesListView.webp" alt="GitHub Receiver Traces Console" caption="GitHub Action Traces in Traces View" />
```

> - Click on `TraceID` to get the full view of the GitHub Actions workflow, which can be seen as

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can click on a particular **TraceID** in the Traces view to get the [detailed view](https://signoz.io/docs/userguide/span-details/) of the GitHub Actions workflow as shown in the image below.
```

> <Figure src="/img/docs/cicd/github/VMForSigNozCloudTraceIDView.webp" alt="GitHub Receiver TraceID" caption="TraceID View" />

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<Figure src="/img/docs/cicd/github/VMForSigNozCloudTraceIDView.webp" alt="Details of a Particular Trace" caption="Details of a Particular Trace" />
```

    ...
    receivers:
      otlp:
        protocols:
          grpc:
            endpoint: 0.0.0.0:4317
          http:
            endpoint: 0.0.0.0:4318
    
    exporters:
      clickhousetraces:
        datasource: tcp://clickhouse:9000/signoz_traces
        low_cardinal_exception_grouping: ${env:LOW_CARDINAL_EXCEPTION_GROUPING}
        use_new_schema: true
      debug:
        verbosity: detailed

    service:
      pipelines:
        traces:
          receivers: [otlp]
          processors: []
          exporters: [clickhousetraces,debug]
    ...
    ```
### Step 6. Restart OTel Collector Services
Restart the `otel-collector` service and `github-otel-collector` service.

    ```bash
    docker compose -f docker/docker-compose.yaml restart otel-collector
    docker compose -f docker/docker-compose.yaml restart github-otel-collector
    ```

### Step 7. View Logs of GitHub OTel Collector
Run the following command to view the logs.
    
    ```bash
    docker compose -f docker/docker-compose.yaml logs -f github-otel-collector
    ```

<Figure src="/img/docs/cicd/github/Traces.webp" alt="GitHub Receiver Traces" caption="GitHub Receiver Startup Message" />

> ## Validate GitHub Actions Traces in SigNoz

Reviewer: Since this validate section is the same for both Cloud and Self-Hosted, we should move this out of the <Tabs> component. This will avoid duplication of content.
